So far most things
are looking pretty good, but
we have some game logic that has not yet
been accounted for.
So, there's a few things that can happen.
We can win the game by
finding all of the pairs, or
we can lose the game by
running out of time.
We can also pause the game
by hitting the pause button.
So, let's represent each of those.
First the pause one is easy to do.
We're just gonna add an On click here.
And that's gonna forward any click events
on the button up to the game component.
We'll add on the countdown,
we'll add, oops, get rid of that.
We'll add a little to-do to ourselves.
In the grid component,
if we find all of the pairs,
then the length of the found
array will be equal
to the area of the grid divided by 2.
And finally, if we run out of time inside
our countdown loop, then we lose the game.
And the way that we're gonna do
this is we're gonna have a variety
of states that the application can be in.
I'm gonna go back into our
page.svelte component.
And we're gonna define a set of states for
the game.
We can be waiting when
we first load the game.
We can be playing.
We can be paused.
We can be in a win state.
Call it won.
Or we can have lost the game.
And we'll initialize that
with a value of waiting.
We need to add lang="ts" because,
otherwise,
it doesn't understand this syntax.
And so now we can add some
UI around the game itself so
that when we first come to this app, we're
not launched into the game immediately,
we have this interstitial welcome screen.
And when we interact with that,
it takes us into the game.
So anytime we are not actively playing,
whether it's because we've paused
the game, or because we've won or
we've lost, we wanna have a modal
that appears on top of the game UI.
So if state is not playing,
Then we wanna have some content.
And we're gonna put that in
a new modal component, so
that we can add some styles to it.
So add that component, Modal.svelte.
The first thing we're gonna do
is create a modal-background,
Which covers the entire screen.
Use position fixed,
Give it a width and a height of 100%.
And we're gonna give it a backdrop filter,
That blurs everything behind the modal.
We're gonna use display grid and
then just place everything in the center.
And finally, we're gonna give it a z-index
to put it safely above all of the content.
And then, inside that,
we'll have the modal content itself.
And we're gonna create a slot, so, that
we can pass some content into this modal.
Save that and
over here we'll create our modal.
Then we can start adding some content
inside here depending on the state that
we're currently in.
So when we first load the page,
the state is going to be waiting.
So we'll add if state is waiting,
We'll add some text that just says,
coose a level.
It looks like we need to add some
positioning on that fixed element so
that we can see it.
All right,
this is the first time I've actually
had some text in this application, and
we can suddenly see that we're using
Times New Roman which is a horrible sin.
So we need to pick some nicer fonts for
this.
One thing that I like to do when
I'm creating any new styles is,
have a default style that
is using the system UI.
Because this way, we don't need
to download any custom fonts, and
it will look pretty nice on basically
whatever platform you're using.
So in VS code,
if you just start typing system UI,
you will get some nicer fonts like that.
But for the for the logo of the game,
we want something a little bit
nicer than the system font.
You can pick your own font but
this is one that I particularly
liked called grandstander.
And rather than going into Google fonts or
whatever and downloading a WAV file and
adding it to my project,
I'm just gonna install it from npm.
There's a wonderful set of
packages called fontsource.
And I'm just gonna install
fontsource/grandstander.
But if you have a font that you would like
to use instead then you can install that.
And once that's installed,
all I need to do in here is add an import
declaration to the top of my styles.css.
That points to that new package.
Right, this makes the grandstander
font available to my app.
So if I add an h1,
I can use font-family, Grandstander.
And then now if I've
set that up correctly,
I can add an h1 inside that modal.
Hey, presto, we have a logo.
Looks like we need to add some
more styles to the modal so
that everything is correctly justified.
Or maybe we just need to make
the h1 a little bit bigger so
let's add some styles here.
Make that nice and big.
And in the original,
we're highlighting the text inside.
So I'm gonna do that by
creating a span inside the h1,
And giving that nice color.
I'm just gonna wrap all
of that in a header, so
that we can add a little tagline as well.
Gonna give the p font-family
a Grandstander as well.
And then we need to handle all of
the other states that our application
could be in.
So we already know that we're not in
the playing state and that leaves paused,
won, and lost.
So we can handle the won and
the lost states together.
If state is won, or state is lost,
We'll add some text that
says you state the game.
If the game is paused,
We'll just say game is currently paused.
And then we'll turn this into
an else if state is waiting.
Then we'll invite the player
to choose a level.
And then below that text,
we wanna have some buttons so
that we can actually start a new game.
And the buttons that we show are gonna
be dependent on what state we're in.
If the game is currently paused,
then we wanna show a Resume button or
a Quit button.
Otherwise, we want to show
the different levels.
And I'm just roughing out
the UI at this point.
We'll add the logic in a moment.
Okay, right now there's
only one button visible and
that is the easy level because
we haven't added the others.
So let's go into levels.ts and
add the other levels of our game.
We'll add one for medium,
it's gonna have a size of 6.
And a duration of, let's say,
2 and a half minutes.
And we're gonna copy the emojis from
the jest that I shared earlier.
And then finally, for the masochists
you're gonna have a hard level
which is gonna be 8 by
8 which means 32 pairs.
And for this one we'll say 5 minutes
It's also gonna be hard because
we're using face emojis and
they all look basically the same, so it's
kinda hard to distinguish between them.
All right, and now if we look at our app,
we should see easy, medium, and
hard.